# PolarGUI (polarization analysis graphical user interface)

   Please cite: Li, H., Qu, K., Rong, W., Tuo, X., Lu, J., Wang, R., ... & Courtois, J. (2021). PolarGUI: A MATLAB‐Based Tool for Polarization Analysis of the Three‐Component Seismic Data Using Different Algorithms. Seismological Research Letters, 92(6), 3821-3831. doi: https://doi.org/10.1785/0220200439
   
   This program was written in MATLAB language (created programmatically, not using GUIDE) and in open-source mode. It can be expediently modified, and other algorithms can be added. 
   
  The PolarGUI consists of 9 function modules, which include the open-file, exit-program, filter and rotate 3D on/off buttons, radio buttons for the selection of different polarization approaches, a waveform display for original seismic recording and the intercepted seismic recording, different exhibitions of the polarization calculation results, two pairs of sliding cursor buttons and dominant frequency exhibition of the two intercepted seismic recordings. The specific polarization analysis illustrations consist of two groups of rose diagrams and two groups of histograms for the azimuth distribution and the incident angle distribution. The two groups correspond to two selected seismic datasets. Moreover, two groups of statistical curve subgraphs are given to demonstrate the degree of rectilinearity and the degree of planarity for the two sections of data. In addition, this GUI also contains two 3D display windows, which are used to draw the hodograms for two the selected sections of data. The PolarGUI tool was developed on the macOS Mojave (version10.14.6) platform using the 64-bit professional version of MATLAB (R2017b). It can also normally run on the Window 10 (64 bits) platform with the 64-bit professional version of MATLAB (R2017b). This tool may be compatible with the latest version, but it has not been tested to determine if it is backward compatible with earlier versions of MATLAB.

   The PolarGUI can be applied to open various data formats, including the SEG-2 and SEG-Y formats (corresponding to the engineering seismic data), SAC and MiniSEED
formats (corresponding to the natural earthquake data), and the general xls, xlsx, or txt format for pure seismic data. Moreover, for different file storage modes, PolarGUI supports simultaneous opening of a single file or multi files, which is convenient when handling different data resources. To accurately display of the analyzed data section, two pairs of cursors are available in the original seismic wave display window, and all of the cursors can be arbitrarily slid along with the horizontal axis. The intercepted waveforms will be exhibited in two independent windows.

  We have added a precise user manual in the software package.
